#summary Installation instructions for Ubuntu Linux 8.10

=Installing astonGeostats=

==Downloading the source code==
Checkout the latest version of the source code from the repository (see "Source" tab for instructions). This will create the `aston-geostats` folder containing the source code for `libgptk` and the installer for the required Xerces-c library.
 
==Installing dependencies==

Prior to compiling `libgptk`, we need to install several dependencies required by `libgptk`. These include IT++, GSL and Gnuplot. The instructions below should work on Ubuntu systems.

===IT++===
In Ubuntu 8.10, IT++ can be installed directly from the repository, using the following command (in a terminal):
{{{
$ sudo apt-get install libitpp6gf libitpp-dev libitpp6-dbg
}}}

===GNU scientific library (GSL)===
Also available from the repository:
{{{
$ sudo apt-get install libgsl0ldbl libgsl0-dbg libgsl0-dev
}}}

===GNUplot===
GNU plot should be installed for the plotting features to be available. This can be done from the repository:
{{{
$ sudo apt-get install gnuplot
}}}


===Xerces XML parser===
`libptk` requires the Xerces XML C library version 3.0.1. The Ubuntu repository only provides version 2.8.0, so we'll need to download and install the library.

This can be done by running the `install-required-libraries.sh` script:
{{{
chmod +x install-required-libraries.sh
./install-required-libraries.sh
}}}
This will install Xerces C in the `lib` folder.

Alternatively, you can install the library manually. 

   # Navigate to the `lib` directory
{{{
$ cd lib
}}}
   # Download the library binaries for Linux from the Xerces website:
{{{
$ wget http://mirror.fubra.com/ftp.apache.org/xerces/c/3/binaries/xerces-c-3.0.1-x86-linux-gcc-3.4.tar.gz
}}}
   # Extract the library and create a symbolic link to it.
{{{
$ tar -xzvf xerces-c-3.0.1-x86-linux-gcc-3.4.tar.gz
$ ln -s xerces-c-3.0.1-x86-linux-gcc-3.4 xercesc
}}}

==Compiling libgptk==
To compile `libgptk`, simply run:
{{{
$ make
}}}
in the `aston-geostats` folder. This will build the library, the examples and the tests.

==Running the demos==
To run the demos in the `examples` directory, use the following command:
{{{
$ cd examples
$ ./rundemo demGP1
}}}

where `demGP1` is the name of the demo. The `rundemo` script merely sets the library path before launching the demo. Alternatively, you can simply run the following command (from the `intamap` directory) and run the demos directly:

{{{
$ export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=../libgptk:../lib/xercesc/lib:$LD_LIBRARY_PATH
$ ./demGP1
}}}

==Running the tests==
Similarly, running the test is done by using the `runtest` script in the `tests folder:
{{{
$ cd tests
$ ./runtest testCSVStream
}}}